_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: "Scott Forrest"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I'm a PhD candidate in Mathematical Sciences at the Queensland University of Technology (QUT) in Brisbane, Australia, and I am researching animal movement methods and applications. In my research I have explored space use and home range approaches, some hidden Markov modelling, and step selection functions and their extensions, and I am also interested in the application of machine learning to ecological problems. I work at the interface between developing methodology and applications to scientific and conservation questions, and I am fascinated by the decision-making processes that lead to animal movement, from the level of neurobiology all the way to population dynamics.

Some examples of the research that I have been involved with are shown in the [Research](/research) section of this website. 

>This is the front page of a website that is powered by the [Academic Pages template](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io) and hosted on GitHub pages. [GitHub pages](https://pages.github.com) is a free service in which websites are built and hosted from code and data stored in a GitHub repository, automatically updating when a new commit is made to the respository. This template was forked from the [Minimal Mistakes Jekyll Theme](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/) created by Michael Rose, and then extended to support the kinds of content that academics have: publications, talks, teaching, a portfolio, blog posts, and a dynamically-generated CV. You can fork [this repository](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io) right now, modify the configuration and markdown files, add your own PDFs and other content, and have your own site for free, with no ads! An older version of this template powers my own personal website at [stuartgeiger.com](http://stuartgeiger.com), which uses [this Github repository](https://github.com/staeiou/staeiou.github.io).

Adding an image
![Editing a markdown file for a talk](/images/editing-talk.png)

For more info
------
More info about configuring Academic Pages can be found in [the guide](https://academicpages.github.io/markdown/). The [guides for the Minimal Mistakes theme](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/docs/configuration/) (which this theme was forked from) might also be helpful.

Commit message:

added to the about section

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: "Scott Forrest"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I'm currently a PhD candidate in Mathematical Sciences at the Queensland University of Technology (QUT) in Brisbane, Australia, and I am researching animal movement methods and applications. In my research I have explored space use and home range approaches, some hidden Markov modelling, and step selection functions and their extensions, and I am also interested in the application of machine learning to ecological problems. I work at the interface between developing methodology and applications to scientific and conservation questions, and I am fascinated by the decision-making processes that lead to animal movement, from the level of neurobiology to population dynamics.

My career path has been anything but linear! I studied a Bachelor of Engineering (Naval Architecture) with Honours at Flinders University in Adelaide, South Australia and the Australian Maritime College in Launceston, Tasmania. During this degree I thoroughly enjoyed the research endeavour through my Honours project with [Gregor MacFarlane](https://discover.utas.edu.au/gregorm), titled: Ship-Generated Solitons and the Dynamic Vessel Response as a Function of Blockage. You can read the article [here](..\files\FORREST_Scott - BEng (Hons) AMC Journal Article.pdf) and watch a video of the research [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D14QuUL8x60&ab_channel=ScottForrest).

### We used the AMC towing tank to create the specific conditions required to generate soliton waves, and then measured the vessel response under different conditions. The results were interesting and the project was a lot of fun
![](/images/solitons.png)

Following my Honours degree I volunteered in the USA with Montana Fish, Wildlife and Parks with the Wolf Program, which led me towards a Master of Science in Wildlife Management at the University of Otago. For my MSc thesis with [Phil Seddon](https://www.otago.ac.nz/zoology/staff/professor-phil-seddon), [Mike Paulin](https://www.otago.ac.nz/zoology/staff/associate-professor-mike-paulin) and [Mariano Rodríguez Recio](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=nb72jnQAAAAJ&hl=en) we GPS-tracked kākā (*Nestor meridionalis*) in Orokonui Ecosanctuary, Dunedin, New Zealand. We assessed their space use and resource selection (via step selection functions), and how that changed throughout time. There were clear age-related patterns of both space use and resource selection, which correlated with higher mortality observations for younger kākā. The full thesis can be found [here](https://ourarchive.otago.ac.nz/esploro/outputs/graduate/Space-use-and-resourceselection-of-the/9926480331601891). The space use analyses has been published in Conservation Science and Practice and you can read the full paper [here](https://conbio.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/csp2.13119), or check out the description in the [Research](/research) section of this website.

We also assessed how the GPS devices that we used, which were [Lotek PinPoint GPS VHF tags](https://www.lotek.com/products/pinpoint-gps-vhf/) that used the SWIFT-fix snapshot algorithm were affected by vegetation and topography. This work was published in Animal Biotelemetry and you can read the full paper [here](https://animalbiotelemetry.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s40317-022-00289-9), or check out the description in the [Research](/research) section of this website.

Some examples of the research that I have been involved with are shown in the [Research](/research) section of this website. 

>This is the front page of a website that is powered by the [Academic Pages template](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io) and hosted on GitHub pages. [GitHub pages](https://pages.github.com) is a free service in which websites are built and hosted from code and data stored in a GitHub repository, automatically updating when a new commit is made to the respository. This template was forked from the [Minimal Mistakes Jekyll Theme](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/) created by Michael Rose, and then extended to support the kinds of content that academics have: publications, talks, teaching, a portfolio, blog posts, and a dynamically-generated CV. You can fork [this repository](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io) right now, modify the configuration and markdown files, add your own PDFs and other content, and have your own site for free, with no ads! An older version of this template powers my own personal website at [stuartgeiger.com](http://stuartgeiger.com), which uses [this Github repository](https://github.com/staeiou/staeiou.github.io).

Adding an image
![Editing a markdown file for a talk](/images/editing-talk.png)

For more info
------
More info about configuring Academic Pages can be found in [the guide](https://academicpages.github.io/markdown/). The [guides for the Minimal Mistakes theme](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/docs/configuration/) (which this theme was forked from) might also be helpful.
